fix(curriculum): enhance table a11y for availability table lab (#66867)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/blocks/lab-availability-table/66b36358ed4f261d64840c24.md

1. Cells in the first row should be table headers containing days of the week.
1. Cells in the first column should be table headers with a `class` of `time` and should contain time values as their text.
1. All data cells should have the `class` of `available-#`, where `#` is a number from `0` to `5` that specifies the number of available people at that time.
1. Your table should have a `caption` element with the text `Weekly Meeting Availability Schedule`.
1. All table header cells in the first row (the days of the week) should have a `scope` attribute with the value `col`.
1. All table header cells in the first column (the time cells) should have a `scope` attribute with the value `row`.

> 1. All data cells in your table should have an `aria-label` attribute that describes the availability level (e.g., `0 available`, `1 available`, etc., and `5+ available` for the `available-5` cells).

Reviewer: not all `td` cells need it, so let's be more specific

```suggestion
1. All data cells with an availability class should have an `aria-label` attribute that describes the availability level (e.g., `0 available`, `1 available`, etc., and `5+ available` for the `available-5` cells).
```

> 1. All data cells with an availability class should have an `aria-label` attribute that describes the availability level (e.g., `0 available`, `1 available`, etc., and `5+ available` for the `available-5` cells).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. All data cells with an availability class should have an `aria-label` attribute that describes the availability level (e.g., `0 available` for the `available-0` cells, `1 available` for the `available-1` cells, etc., and `5+ available` for the `available-5` cells).
```

1. In your `:root` selector, you should define six CSS variables named `--color#`, where `#` is a number from `0` to `5`, and assign them each a color value. Use these variables to set the background color of the corresponding `.available-#` elements.
1. In your `:root` selector, you should define CSS variables named `--solid-border` and `--dashed-border`. Use these variables to style the bottom borders of your data cells, alternating between solid and dashed borders depending on the row. Give the rows either the class of `sharp` or `half` to style them.
1. You should have a `div` element with the `id` of `legend`. It should contain a `span` element with the text `Availability` and a `div` element with the `id` of `legend-gradient`.

> 1. You should give the `#legend-gradient` element a linear gradient that transitions between all the colors from `--color0` to `--color5`. Each color value should have two color stops (expressed as percentages) to make the transition between colors a hard line.

Reviewer: why are you changing this line? what's happening here?

1. Your table should have a `caption` element with the text `Weekly Meeting Availability Schedule`.
1. All table header cells in the first row (the days of the week) should have a `scope` attribute with the value `col`.

> 1. All table header cells in the first column (the time cells) should have a `scope` attribute with the value `rowgroup`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. All table header cells in the first column (the time cells) should have a `scope` attribute with the value `row`.
```

> 1. All data cells in your table should have an `aria-label` attribute that describes the availability level (e.g., `0 available`, `1 available`, etc., and `5+ available` for the `available-5` cells).

Reviewer: move these 4 to be user stories 5-9, we put HTML user stories above the CSS ones

}
```

Your table should have a `caption` element.

```js
const caption = document.querySelector('table caption');
assert.isNotNull(caption);
```

Your `caption` element should have the text `Weekly Meeting Availability Schedule`.

```js
const caption = document.querySelector('table caption');
assert.equal(caption?.textContent, 'Weekly Meeting Availability Schedule');
```

All table header cells in the first row should have a `scope` attribute with the value `col`.

```js
const headers = [...document.querySelectorAll('tr:first-child>th:not([class*="time"])')];
assert.isNotEmpty(headers);
headers.forEach(header => {
    assert.equal(header.getAttribute('scope'), 'col');
});

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const headers = [...document.querySelectorAll('tr:first-child>th:not([class*="time"])')];
assert.isNotEmpty(headers);
headers.forEach(header => {
    assert.equal(header.getAttribute('scope'), 'col');
});
```

Author: @imsomilg The code block is similar here.

Reviewer 3: There is one empty line before three backticks.

Author: Nice, i will take a look shortly

> 
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
});
```
````

All table header cells in the first column should have a `scope` attribute with the value `row`.

```js

> const timeHeaders = [...document.querySelectorAll('th[class*="time"]')];

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const timeHeaders = [...document.querySelectorAll('tr > th:first-child')];
```

assert.isNotEmpty(timeHeaders);
timeHeaders.forEach(header => {
    assert.equal(header.getAttribute('scope'), 'row');
});
```

> All data cells in your table should have an `aria-label` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All data cells with an availability class should have an `aria-label` attribute.
```

}
```

Your table should have a `caption` element.

```js
const caption = document.querySelector('table caption');
assert.isNotNull(caption);
```

Your `caption` element should have the text `Weekly Meeting Availability Schedule`.

```js
const caption = document.querySelector('table caption');
assert.equal(caption?.textContent, 'Weekly Meeting Availability Schedule');
```

All table header cells in the first row should have a `scope` attribute with the value `col`.

```js
const headers = [...document.querySelectorAll('tr:first-child>th:not([class*="time"])')];
assert.isNotEmpty(headers);
headers.forEach(header => {
    assert.equal(header.getAttribute('scope'), 'col');
});

```

> All table header cells in the first column should have a `scope` attribute with the value `rowgroup`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All table header cells in the first column should have a `scope` attribute with the value `row`.
```

```js
const timeHeaders = [...document.querySelectorAll('th[class*="time"]')];
assert.isNotEmpty(timeHeaders);
timeHeaders.forEach(header => {

>     assert.equal(header.getAttribute('scope'), 'rowgroup');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    assert.equal(header.getAttribute('scope'), 'row');
```

    assert.equal(cell.getAttribute('aria-label'), '1 available');
});
```

Data cells with the `available-2` class should have an `aria-label` of `2 available`.

```js
const cells = [...document.querySelectorAll('td.available-2')];
assert.isNotEmpty(cells);
cells.forEach(cell => {
    assert.equal(cell.getAttribute('aria-label'), '2 available');
});
```

Data cells with the `available-3` class should have an `aria-label` of `3 available`.

```js
const cells = [...document.querySelectorAll('td.available-3')];
assert.isNotEmpty(cells);
cells.forEach(cell => {
    assert.equal(cell.getAttribute('aria-label'), '3 available');
});
```

Data cells with the `available-4` class should have an `aria-label` of `4 available`.

```js
const cells = [...document.querySelectorAll('td.available-4')];
assert.isNotEmpty(cells);
cells.forEach(cell => {
    assert.equal(cell.getAttribute('aria-label'), '4 available');
});
```

Data cells with the `available-5` class should have an `aria-label` of `5+ available`.

```js
const cells = [...document.querySelectorAll('td.available-5')];
assert.isNotEmpty(cells);
cells.forEach(cell => {
    assert.equal(cell.getAttribute('aria-label'), '5+ available');
});

> ```

Reviewer: you must make it clear that the 6 classes should all be present, or you must drop the constraint from these tests

<body>
    <main>
        <table>
            <caption>Weekly Meeting Availability Schedule</caption>
            <tbody>
                <tr class="sharp">

>                     <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="rowgroup">9 AM</th>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="row">9 AM</th>
```

                    <th scope="col">Monday</th>
                    <th scope="col">Tuesday</th>
                    <th scope="col">Wednesday</th>
                    <th scope="col">Thursday</th>
                    <th scope="col">Friday</th>
                </tr>
                <tr class="half">
                    <td class="available-0" aria-label="0 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-1" aria-label="1 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-2" aria-label="2 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-2" aria-label="2 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                </tr>
                <tr class="sharp">

>                     <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="rowgroup">10 AM</th>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="row">10 AM</th>
```

                    <td class="available-3" aria-label="3 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                </tr>

                <tr class="half">
                    <td class="available-3" aria-label="3 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                </tr>
                <tr class="sharp">

>                     <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="rowgroup">11 AM</th>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="row">11 AM</th>
```

                    <td class="available-0" aria-label="0 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-2" aria-label="2 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-0" aria-label="0 available"></td>
                </tr>
                <tr class="half">
                    <td class="available-3" aria-label="3 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-1" aria-label="1 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                </tr>
                <tr class="sharp">

>                     <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="rowgroup">12 PM</th>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="row">12 PM</th>
```

                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                    <td class="available-3" aria-label="3 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-2" aria-label="2 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-0" aria-label="0 available"></td>
                </tr>
                <tr class="half">
                    <td class="available-3" aria-label="3 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-0" aria-label="0 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                </tr>
                <tr class="sharp">

>                     <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="rowgroup">1 PM</th>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="row">1 PM</th>
```

                    <td class="available-2" aria-label="2 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-3" aria-label="3 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-3" aria-label="3 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-2" aria-label="2 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-0" aria-label="0 available"></td>
                </tr>
                <tr class="half">
                    <td class="available-3" aria-label="3 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                </tr>
                <tr class="sharp">

>                     <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="rowgroup">2 PM</th>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="row">2 PM</th>
```

                    <td class="available-0" aria-label="0 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-3" aria-label="3 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                </tr>
                <tr class="half">
                    <td class="available-3" aria-label="3 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                </tr>
                <tr class="sharp">

>                     <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="rowgroup">3 PM</th>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="row">3 PM</th>
```

                    <td class="available-3" aria-label="3 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-3" aria-label="3 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                </tr>
                <tr class="half">
                    <td class="available-3" aria-label="3 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                </tr>
                <tr class="sharp">

>                     <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="rowgroup">4 PM</th>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="row">4 PM</th>
```

                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                </tr>
                <tr class="half">
                    <td class="available-3" aria-label="3 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-0" aria-label="0 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-4" aria-label="4 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-2" aria-label="2 available"></td>
                    <td class="available-5" aria-label="5+ available"></td>
                </tr>
                <tr class="sharp">

>                     <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="rowgroup">5 PM</th>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    <th rowspan="2" class="time" scope="row">5 PM</th>
```
